Create Security Self Assessment for Fluentd Project (#1180)
cncf/tag-security: assessments/projects/fluentd/fluentd/self-assessment.md

# Fluentd Self-assessment

> Signed-off-by: Nihal Rahman <nr2320@nyu.edu>
> Co-authored-by: Jeffrey Wong <jw4186@nyu.edu>
> Co-authored-by: Garvin Huang <gh2222@nyu.edu>
> Co-authored-by: Jin Zhou <jz3928@nyu.edu>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Signed-off-by: Nihal Rahman <nr2320@nyu.edu>

Co-authored-by: 

- Jeffrey Wong <jw4186@nyu.edu>
- Garvin Huang <gh2222@nyu.edu>
- Jin Zhou <jz3928@nyu.edu>
```

Reviewer: Be sure to look at the markdown preview in your IDE or here on the pull request to ensure that formatting turns out how you expected. I've suggested a change that I think accomplishes the heart of what you were going for.

Author: just updated. Thanks for the suggestions eddie!

Reviewer: Double checking— is this what you were going for? It's not a problem, just looks unintentional.

<img width="704" alt="Screenshot 2023-12-12 at 5 25 27 PM" src="https://github.com/cncf/tag-security/assets/21176439/8f846ed1-2a93-4676-9832-b4154c752b63">

  * Set up [AWS-hosted NTP server](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/set-time.html) for AWS users.
  * Increase the **Maximum Number of File Descriptors** to guarantee sufficient file descriptors for Fluentd.
  * Optimize the **Network Kernal Parameters** to secure smooth network connection for Fluentd.
  * Use **sticky bit symlink/hardlink protection** to ensure link security because Fluentd sometimes uses predictable paths for dumping, writing files, and so on.

2. Logging
   Fluentd has two logging layers: global and per plugin, combined they grant the ability to track all events that occurred, including security-related ones. This is important for monitoring and analysis, providing observability regarding security issues.

3. Memory Buffering
   When the destination Fluentd instance dies, certain logger implementations will use extra memory to hold the incoming logs that would be immediately sent again once Fluentd comes back, ensuring no critical security events and activities discarded that might affect the overall safety.
   
## Project compliance

> * The Fluentd project has earned the badge of [Open Source Security Foundation (OpenSSF)](https://www.bestpractices.dev/en/projects/1189#reporting), illustrating its qualification regarding security, quality, and various other fields in detail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The Fluentd project has earned a passing status on the [OpenSSF Best Practices Badge](https://www.bestpractices.dev/en/projects/1189#reporting), illustrating its dedication to quality and security.
```

- **Plugins**: Fluentd is composed of plugins that perform specific functions. Each plugin is executed independently of the core process and of each other, but exchange data along the pipeline.
- **Plugin API**: Fluentd has Plugin APIs for third parties to create custom plugins. There are 2 versions for the current v1 and the old v0.12. Fluentd v1 supports both v1 and v0.12 APIs.

### Actions
Fluentd log pipelines consist of different types of plugins stitched together to perform specific and customizable data processing operations. Some of these plugins are available in the base package, while others are installed on Fluentd. There are over 500 community plugins for Fluentd that can read data including enterprise staples like Kafka, as well as data heavy backends like Hadoop and MongoDB. Generally speaking, a Fluentd pipeline consists of three stages, input, processing, and output, which are setup by configuring different Fluentd plugins.

> There are a total of 9 types of plugins in Fluentd: input, parser, filter, output, formatter, storage, service discovery, buffer, and metrics. The configuration file allows the user to define inputs or listeners and set up common matching rules to route logging event data to specific outputs by specifying and configuring these plugins. Each logging event is processed by the core configuration, which initializes the plugins in the order in which they are specified in the configuration file. The events follow a step-by-step cycle where they are processed in order, from top to bottom, and the plugins send logging data down the pipeline. Fluentd is equipped with a password-based authentication mechanism, which verifies the identity of each client using a shared secret key. For example, the secure_forward plugins for input and output (in_secure_forward and out_secure_forward) accepts and sends messages via SSL with authentication. Fluentd has a flexible plugin system that allows the community to extend its functionality, but any Fluentd plugin can unknowingly break Fluentd completely (and possibly break other plugins) by requiring some incompatible modules.

Reviewer 2: I like your analysis at a high level, but maybe breaking out the plugin types or the general operation capabilities they provide into sub-sections of the actions section could be helpful for flow and comprehension.

Author: Hi @torinvdb, thank you for your feedback. I believe the reason its not further into detail is because we created a self assessment folder section called plugin where more information regarding the plugins would be given as suggested by another review earlier in the week.

Author: Also, a previous reviewer told us to take out information regarding the plugins and we made this change regarding a more basic overview based on their suggestion. You may scroll to the previously resolved comments to view this.

Reviewer 2: That makes more sense, thank you!

the log data as JSON as much as possible. Fluentd tries to structure data as JSON as much as possible: 
this allows Fluentd to unify all facets of processing log data: collecting, filtering, buffering, and 
outputting logs across multiple sources and destinations. 

### Non-goals
 - Fluentd doesn't handle missing data.
   - Fluentd recommends capping  the max amount of time to wait until attempting a retry connection to the backend.
   - Fluentd recommends manually running the application with input in terminal.
   - Fluentd recommends checking the configuration settings.
 - Fluentd doesn't make sure the logs are parsed correctly.
   - Fluentd recommends using online tools such as Rubular.com and fluentular.
   - Fluentd recommends checking existing parsers.
   - Fluentd recommends checking the configuration settings.
 - Fluentd continously writes with errors if the buffer is full.
   - Fluentd recommends checking the flush_interval.
   - Fluentd recommends increasing workers and flush_thread_count.
   - Fluentd recommends changing buffer type to file.
   - Fluentd recommends manually changing buffer size in the parameters.

## Self-assessment use

> This self-assessment is created by the Fluentd team to perform an internal analysis of the

Reviewer: Can you please specify at the top which member of the maintainer team acted as an author on this? (Or otherwise rephrase)

Author: Hi Eddie. I meant to say like our team which was assigned the Fluentd project

Author: Any recommendations on how to rephrase it?

Author: Does the new phrasing work?
